Hi, guys, in this lesson, we're going to use security groups and network schools, and we should
already have some instances running from earlier on in this section, so you should have free instances
running to in a public subnet and one in a private subnet.
And what we're going to do is test various configurations of security groups and network actors.
Now the first thing I need to do back in EC2 is go to security groups and I'm going to create a new
security group.
So we have the public web.
Now we're going to create the private app.
So this security group is going to be called Private Dash app.
I've given a description and let's choose my VPC for the VPC.
Now, what will the rule be here?
Well, I'm actually going to delete the outbound rules we've already configured.
We've given internet access to this particular instance before.
So we were able to download HD TPD when we installed the web service.
But for now, I'm going to take our outbound rules, which means from now on, it won't be able to connect
out to the internet for inbound rules.
What I want to do is use FTP.
So let's just scroll down, find HTP.
That's the protocol for the web server and for source.
What I'm going to do here is type S.G. and I can see my public web access.
So I'm doing the best practice and say what I want to do is make sure that the web server in our apps
is only ever going to allow connections that come from the web servers on the front and the public facing
web servers in this security group.
So let's create that security group.
Now we need to assign it to our instance.
So let's choose Private One Be go to actions, security, change security groups and we're going to
remove public web.
I'm going to choose private app, click on Ad Security Group and then click on Save.
Great.
So that should be set up correctly now.
The first thing I want to do, though, is test the access to the security group on our front end.
So what I'm going to do is go to security groups, choose the public web security group and under inbound
rules, I'm going to edit the inbound rules.
And what I want to do here is change from all traffic.
And again, we're going to choose HDTV only.
We're going to remove the any source and we're going to specify my IP.
So what that will do is it picks up my IP address, and that means that I will be able to connect over
the internet to this particular web service.
Now I'm actually using a VPN, and we're going to change it in a moment.
So if you do have access to a VPN, you'll be able to do this as well.
Otherwise, it can be a little bit difficult unless you have multiple public IP, but I just want to
show you the concept anyway.
So let's just save this rule.
Come back to instances, take the public IP address and in a browser, let's just hit enter.
And that looks great.
So I get access to this instance.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go in and change my VPN here.
So I'm connecting to a different service, and that means I've got a different IP now.
So let's just refresh the page.
Now, you can't see anything happening, but if you look up in the top browser ball here, we can see.
We're trying to connect and this is what happens with security groups.
When you can't connect, it kind of just hangs for quite a while and then eventually it will time out.
So that's definitely working.
We're not able to access the instance now if I come back to security groups.
And what I'd rather do is choose my public web security group at inbound rules.
And instead, I'm going to change this to any IPv4 because this is a web service, so we want anyone
on the internet to be able to connect.
So let's just save that role and take over here.
It failed to connect.
Let's refresh.
And now we're back in again.
So that's a good configuration.
Now a web service is allowing only FTP from the internet, and then it should be able to forward onto
the app service because of the security rules we set up before.
So let's test that layer now back in easy to.
That's got two instances.
And what I want to do here is connect to my public one.
I instance over instance connect, and I'm going to check the private IP address of my instance in my
private subnet.
And that's 10 zero four one four right now.
Just not as one of the things we have done here is we've got to secure, so we've locked ourself out.
Now, if you just click on this note here, it takes you over to an article and we can see that we actually
need Port 22 from our IP address to be able to access the instance.
So let's go back and set this up as a secure configuration.
So going back into security groups, what we need to do is go to public web, at inbound rules, at
a rule, and this one can be S-H.
And what we'll do here is we're just going to add any internet address because I might be changing my
internet address a couple of times.
So, otherwise, of course, you could use my IP or have a range of addresses that you trust.
That would be a more secure configuration.
But for now, we will be changing your lips, so I'm happy to have that as open.
So let's save those rules.
Now, let's try and retry this instance.
Connect and we're in.
So the way I want to try and test that we can connect to our app layer is using Curl DashPass and then
putting in the IP 10 zero four Dash one four eight.
Let's hit enter.
And we get a response, so that's great.
Now remember, we didn't have an outbound rule from that security group, so the response traffic is
coming back purely because this is a stateful firewall.
So that's it for security groups.
Let's move on and have a look at configuring a network ACL back in of APC management console.
Let's go to network cycles, and what we'll see is there are already network cycles, so we've got one
here for our custom VPC.
Now let us go in and have a look at the configuration.
So we have inbound rules.
We have a rule number one, allowing all traffic inbound.
And then at the end, we have eight to nine rule.
So remember these get processed in order.
So in this case, everything gets allowed because of the allow rule so that the deny rule doesn't get
processed outbound.
We've got exactly the same thing.
So let's try something.
What I'm going to do is edit the inbound rules and I'm going to add a rule and I'm going to make this
one on one.
And what I'm going to do is specify FTP source is going to be my IP address.
So I know my IP address is this one at the moment.
So I put slash 32 for an exact match, and I'm going to click on Deny.
So I'm going to deny access from this particular IP address to HTP.
Now, do you think this is going to work?
Hopefully, you realize there's an error here, but let's just save the changes and we'll go and check
it out back in easy.
I'm just going to copy the public IP of my instance.
Go to a new web page, hit enter and I get access.
So of course, that didn't work.
Now let's go and see why.
Back in the VPC management console, let's edit these rules for the network ICL.
Now, as you know, rules get processed in order.
So we've got a deny rule here that's after and allow the allow announce everything.
So actually, this is not going to work.
Let's change this to 99 sort by rule order.
And now we have a specific deny before and allow.
So essentially, it's going to look through the rules.
It's going to see that traffic is coming in on Port 80 from this particular IP, and it's going to deny
it.
So we never get to the allow rule for this particular traffic.
So let's save changes.
So we'll go and test this out now.
But there's just one thing that you need to understand was security group rules.
When you apply them, they do actually get put into effect pretty much immediately.
That can be a bit more of a delay with a network ACL.
So if you find you still have access to your instance, then it's probably just because you're a bit.
Too fast.
So just give it a couple of minutes and try again.
And we should find that we do get denied in a browser window here that's placed in our IP address.
And sure enough, it looks like it's hanging.
So that's clearly not working.
Now what if I changed my IP?
So this time I could change to somewhere different?
And very quickly this time the connection did actually change, and it did allow me in.
So sometimes the network ICAO rules apply super fast, and sometimes there's a bit of a delay, so it
really can vary.
So that shows you how to use a deny rule with a network ICL.
Now I'm just going to come back in and clean up that room, so I don't want to have any deny rules in
my network, ICL.
So let's just remove that one out from the inbound rules and save changes.
Now there are a couple of things we can clean up now to make sure that we don't get any bills.
Firstly, let's go to on Nat Gateway.
These can cost money, so let's just delete this Nat Gateway, and that's gone.
And don't forget, you will also need to make sure that the elastic IP has also been removed from your
account back in.
Easy to now.
I do want to keep one public and one private instance, but I can terminate the other public instance.
Now we will actually use the command line for this.
I just want to show you another Seelye command back in our fall here.
We can specify the values for all these two instances.
So I've just got one here, so I'm going to put it in inverted commas.
Copy this command and back in my command line.
Let's just try and terminate this instance.
And when you do that, you'll see that the current state is shutting down and the previous state was
running.
So we now know that our active instance is being terminated.
So that's it for now, but do need those other two instances running because we will be using them in
subsequent lessons.